# DirezioneInvestigativaAntimafia-DIA-
Repository per il progetto di Data and Intelligence Applications


| Functionality | State |
|:-----------------------|:------------------------------------:|
| Environment Social Network | [Y](#) ToComplete |
| Environment SN: substitute get with fromFileName method | [X](#) |
| Environment SN: features| [Y](#) |
| Environment SN initialisation| [Y](#) |
| Environment Advertising | [X](#) |
| Environment ADV initialisation | [X](#) |
| Monte Carlo influence estimation (step 1) | [X](#) |
| Link probability estimation (step 4)| [X](#) |
| Influence maximization (step 4 ?) | [X](#) |


## Project assignment: Advertising and Social influence

#### Scenario 
Consider the scenario in which an advertiser tries to activate a cascade in a social network by using sponsored ads. On the other side, the social network platform works as an ad publisher. The nodes of social networks can be of different categories and the activation probabilities depend on the categories of the nodes.


#### Environment
Imagine a social network in which the nodes belong to 5 categories and in which the activation probabilities associated with the edges are linear functions in the features. Every category is used as a different advertising target, corresponding to 5 different campaigns. Each campaign is a part of a different auction. More precisely, for every category, we have an auction returning an ad allocation and this allocation is shown to every advertiser of that category. The click behavior of each node is independent from the others. Model these auctions such that there is a single (learning) advertiser, while the other advertisers have a stochastic behavior. Adopt a classical VCG approach, with 6 slots and where there are no budget constraints. In every auction, there is a finite number of bids (4 strictly positive values and 0, corresponding to turn off the campaign).


At every round, the advertiser can bid for their ads for every category of users, the platform displays an ad allocation to every node accordingly, the users can click or not the ad, and, in the case of click, a cascade induced by social influence is activated. The feedback is edge level. Remarkably, a node behaves as a social influence only if it clicked the ad, and every node can be (with a given probability) a social influence thus leading to situations in which multiple nodes generate influence. Although we have 5 different auctions, the message is the same and therefore the cascade will be the same. (A suggestion to deal with social influencers that activate with a given probability: for every node, add a fictitious node, connect it to the “true” node, and its activation probability will be equal to the click probability).
Assume that the stochastic behavior of the advertisers is non-stationary. In particular, assume that the changes are abrupt in some phases.


#### Steps
You need to complete the following steps.
1. Estimate the social influence generated by a set of bids with Monte Carlo methods and show how the approximation error varies as the number of repetitions varies. More precisely, evaluate the average number of activated nodes as the number of iterations varies. Use the best performance you obtain as a baseline and show the performance gap due a different number of iterations (also report the theoretical upper bound on the approximation error). Notice, for every node we have an auction (therefore the number of auctions is equal to the number of nodes), but a bid applies to all the nodes of the same category (therefore at every round the advertisers makes 5 bids). The mapping between nodes and categories is known.
2. Formulate the optimization problem in which the objective function is the difference between the expected number of activated nodes (multiplied by some opportune coefficient) and the expected total cost per click (summed over all the nodes). Define which are the random variables and choose how to model them.
3. Design the following greedy optimization algorithms. For every category, sort the bids from 0 to the largest and consider them as increasing bidding levels. Assume to have a vector of 5 bids, one per category. Evaluate the marginal gain one can obtain by increasing the bid by one level for every category (that is, increase a single bid by a single level and evaluate the marginal gain, do that for every category, and finally choose the increase maximizing the marginal gain and apply it; then reiterate the procedure while there is at least one positive increase).
4. Address the online learning of the best bids when the slots’ observation probabilities are known, while the click probabilities and the cost per click are unknown. Adopt a classical bandit algorithm in which one can learn the click probability (quality) of an ad only when the ad is displayed in the first position and compare its performance with a cascading bandit algorithm in which the click probability can be learnt by using any samples, including when the ad is not displayed in the first position. Assume the activation probabilities to be known and the behavior of the stochastic advertisers to be stationary. Adopt both an upper-confidence bound approach and a Thompson-sampling approach and compare their performance.
5. Do the same as Step 4 when the activation probabilities are not known.
6. Do the same as Step 5 when the behavior of the advertisers is non-stationary by using sliding-window approaches.



You are required to:

+ Produce the Python code.

+ Produce a technical report describing the environment, the algorithms and the plot representing the regret and the reward of every algorithm. Provide also a practical application motivating the scenario.

+ Produce a presentation as a summary of the technical report.